All right, so let's have a look
at some of the out of the ordinary concepts
about creating and manipulating Strings in Java.
So note here that the compareTo method
and compareToIgnoreCase do not return
just 0, 1 and -1 values, but returns zero if the same String
and the result is calculated as follows.
So in the case of String one being abc,
and String to being abcdef, then a call to compareTo
on s1 passing s2 actually returns -3
and the calculation there is s1.length minus s2.length.
That calculation's used when the String s1
is a sub-String of s2 starting index position zero.
In the second scenario s2.comparedTo
with s1 passed as the parameters
of the result is 3 instead of -3 and that calculation
is s2.length minus s1.length and that calculation's used
when String two contains s1 starting at index position zero.
All right, so moving on, we're doing a test now
for abc in lowercase vs abc in uppercase.
S1.compareTo2 s2 passed as an argument
will actually return 32 and the calculation
is s1.charAt and then passing as the perimeter
IndexWhereStringsDiffer,
minus s2.charAtIndexWhereStringsDiffer.
And in this particular scenario IndexWhereStringsDiffer
is equal to zero in this particular instance.
Then s2.compareTo with s1 passed and an argument
result instead of being 32 is -32.
With s2.charAtIndexWhereStringsDiffer
minus s1.charAtIndexWhereStringsDiffer
being used for the calculation
and this is where IndexWhereStringsDiffers is equal to zero
in this particular instance.
All right lastly, if you do the first argument
s1 being abc in lowercase
and s2 to also being abc in lowercase,
s1.compareTo passing s2 as a parameter will return zero.
All right just some things to keep in mind there.
All right so the String constructive and the valueOf method
can be used to create new Strings
which a full or partial Strings to the current String,
similar to the sub-string method
with one very important difference
and that is that the constructor and valueOf method's
parameters have the same types but the last parameter
has different meaning.
So to see what I mean we're gonna create a class here
called TestValueOf in our Strings Project.
So I've created a String on line 12
and in the first example there standing on line 16,
the constructor is used to get the sub-string
beginning at an offset index four inclusive
and six characters long
and we'll see the answer to that all the output to that
when we run it.
In the next scenario the valueOf methods used
to get the sub-string beginning of the offset index four
inclusive and six characters long.
Again we'll see the results of that shortly.
Then the method sub-string standing on line 27,
we're using that.
That uses offsets.
Beginning the offset is inclusive again
and ending offset is exclusive
and what happens if we actually passed
the same parameter values examples above?
Then we'd make another example on line 31 where
we're changing a second parameter value
and then we're just confirming, which we know by now anyway
that the variable won't be updated
by printing it out on line 35.
So let's run this.
And you can see the output confirming what we've done here.
So these are just things that you may
well have known all about but useful things to keep in mind
because there's other types of things that you'll be asked,
may well be asked about in the exam
and in terms of exam questions,
one that we've seen before is where they come up
and ask you to know when a String object is being created
or how many have been created.
So let's review some interesting observations
by creating a new class to talk about this.
You're gonna create the new classical StringCount.
so go ahead and do that.
And hopefully the comment makes it clear on line 13 and 14
the behaviour is the same for all the replace methods
on the String.
If there's no match a new String object is not created
and we'll just run that so you can review the code there
and see that's the cases of 1 2 3 4
and our output, we got the value true.
Basically the point I'm making here
is that you can see all of these return true indicating
at the methods return the String original reference itself,
so a new String object was not created.
And that's in the scenario where the methods find no match.
All right with that said let's add another segment of code.
This is where the parameters have the same character value.
All right so I can see what I've done there.
The replace method with two chars that are the same
does not create a new String object, let's confirm that.
And you can see the fifth output String original
is equal to String replaced.
Basically, in other words,
it's returning the same String reference back
and not creating a new String object.
Now interestingly here this behaviour is only true
for the replace method using char parameters.
The other three replace methods with matching parameters,
actually do return new String references
which is pretty interesting.
So to confirm that, I've still got some more code
that I'm going to paste in here.
So let's go and check that out.
All right so just looking at that code.
But again the point there, passing String parameters
or parameters of target String exhibits different behaviour
then the ones that accept chars so let's run this
and you can see that in this case the output for 678
have all returned false
meaning in fact a new String was created
in each of those scenarios.
So let's look at the sub-string example now.
So I'm gonna add some code for that.
And the comment gives it away.
Note that creating a sub-string which is the same as String
does not create a new object.
We'll confirm that.
And you can see we getting the answer true there.
And you can confirm a new object is not created
if you use sub-string with the full length
of the current String.
All right so I've got one more bit of code to add now.
These accounting String object samples.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'll have this code.
So on line 59, note that the compiler calculates
this expression to the constant abc:def
so only one String is created at one time on this line.
And we're setting up some other Strings on lines 62, 63, 64.
Now the code on line 73 actually creates
three String objects.
Firstly, object one, that comprises s2 plus s1.
Object two equals s3 plus object one.
And object three equals s4 plus object two.
Now if you rewrite this as you can see on line 70.
So s5 equals three left parentheses, s4 plus s3,
closing parentheses plus s2 closing parentheses,
plus s1 closing parentheses,
it might be easier to count the number of objects created
by counting left parentheses groupings.
But it's interesting to see how that actually runs
and how that actually works.
Right, so that's completed our review here of Strings.
Now the String is the powerhouse of many applications
and there was a lot of information to cover.
Keep in mind that it's highly likely
there'll be many questions on the exam testing and knowledge
of the String and it's associated methods.
All right so I'm moving on.
There'll be a short quiz now
on some of the String topics we've discussed
so far in this section of the course.
Good luck and I'll see you in that quiz
and then in the next section,
we'll move on to different content.